We'll be talking about next
is the computer vision.
So let's create new notebook.
Because I want just to show
you a couple of datasets
you can start using to play
around with the images.
For instance, once again,
let's import TensorFlow.
We also kinda import Keras directly.
So let's say from tensorflow import keras.
All right, just to make sure,
we can print out a TensorFlow version.
I think Keras should also
have the same format,
new version of the Keras, at least.
So, keras__version__ should give you,
yes, 2.2.4-tf.
Meaning that Keras, this version
of Keras is using TensorFlow, or
actually part of TensorFlow,
to be precise.
And what is interesting in Keras, There
is additional functionality available.
And the one I'm looking for
is keras.datasets.
So keras.datasets, if you press Enter and
just press top afterwards,
it will show you
the available datasets already embedded or
available for
you right now as part of
the Keras framework itself.
So boston_housing, I believe it's data
from 1970 about prices of houses in Boston
depending on multiple
different input values.
For instance, the data points use
the age of the person living there,
how many rooms, how much floor,
how far away it is from the downtown.
Criminal activities in the region,
kinda a lot
of different information which affects
the prices, so you can play with it.
For instance, if you want to try
different regression algorithms.
cifar10 and cifar100, it's images,
but pretty small images.
I don't remember the exact resolution.
I think it's 20, maybe similar to mnist.
That's the one I want to use.
It's 28 by 28 small images
with 10 different classes or
100 different classes.
fashion_mnist or mnist,
that's the one I want to use.
mnist is your handwritten digits, and
fashion_mnist is just ten different
types of clothing and shoes.
So to basically visualize
what we have here,
we can simply say load_data, right?
And if you kinda curious what
this function will return,
that's the only function
available in the mnist module.
You can just run this command and it will
tell you that it will load the mnist data.
So it will return back x_train,
y_train and x_test, y_test.
Okay, so let's just copy those and
say these values should be created, right?
And after we call this function,
ta-dah, okay.
So now in my x_train,
I will have something, as well as y_train.
So let's go back and actually
discuss what exactly we have here.
Remember that the whole machine learning
process can be split into two parts.
First, we're doing the training
of the model itself, right?
And for training parts, we can use
x_training, that's the input data,
and y_training,
that's the labels we should get.
So remember we need to provide input and
output for
model to modify their weights, right?
And x_test and y_test,
it's another set of similar inputs and
outputs, but
the one our model haven't seen yet.
And those can be used to
just test your model,
to see what's the accuracy of
the predictions you're gonna get.
So let's actually visualize it.
So what's what is train?
If I just simply print out x_train,
you will see that it looks like arrays,
tons of arrays.
So what if I just grab train 0,
kinda the first array?
Okay, a lot of zeros, and
some other numbers, all right.
That's pretty awesome, although it
doesn't really clear how it looked like.
I think if I zoom out just for
a second, it will be slightly better.
No, we still cannot see it easily.
I know one trick.
What I can do, I can,
yes, import numpy as np.
And in numpy,
there is very good command called
set_printoptions, yes, printoptions.
And to this command,
you can provide the linewidth.
So let's return quickly back to the zoom.
So what we did, we just import numpy
as np and setting up the printoptions.
Because I want full line to be printed, so
I can put it to something really large,
right, I don't care.
All right, so now if I zoom out,
You can actually see that it
looks like number 5, right?
So it's just the values of the intensity.
So 0 is our background, and
those numbers between 0 and
255 is just the intensity of ink.
So instead of just printing
out those numbers,
I can even visualize them,
it's gonna be easier.
All right, back to 200%.
What I can do,
I can use matplotlib inline,
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt.
I'm just using this library for
visualization.
And I can, for instance, plt.imshow.
imshow function is just showing images.
And I can say I want to
visualize x_train[0].
Let's see if it works.
Yeah, it does, so basically in x_train[0],
so x_train is the list of images.
And for instance, in second image,
if we execute it, is our 0, right?
And at the same time, if we print our ys,
so y_train, for instance,
that was number 5.
So it actually shows us
what the number we should
recognize by looking at this image, right?
And in index number 1,
we should see 0, which is true.
So that’s gonna be the data we will
be using to train our model, right?
But the thing is when we print it out,
the numbers were between 0 and
255, right, integers.
Our machine learning models,
they usually work not with integers, but
with floating point numbers, right?
So what we will need to do, we need to,
first of all, convert all of
those inputs to floating points.
And probably, we want to rescale it.
It is recommended in
a stabilization of your model for
data and signal to be normalized and
ideally kinda shrink to,
well, as close to 0.
So what we can do here,
we can simply convert.
So just all our x_trains,
we can say we want all those to
be divided by 255.0.
So what this operation will do,
it will take all
individual pixels as numbers,
divide them by 255.
Which will automatically cast them
into floating point numbers and
write them back to the original location.
So for instance, if I just do that and
do the same thing with, not ys, x_test.
And execute this.
Now, for instance,
if I just print x_train[0],
We'll see that all my numbers,
which were distributed between 0 and
255, now shrink down to
the values between 0 and 1.
That's what I want, all right.